# Short film

On 26 February 2026, the band premiered an 8-minute animated film directed by Hewlett, Johnatan Djob Nkondo, Max Taylor and Tim McCourt, entitled The Mountain, the Moon Cave and the Sad God.[52]

The short film is made up of three songs from the album: the instrumental "The Mountain" (featuring Dennis Hopper, Ajay Prasanna, Anoushka Shankar, Amaan Ali Bangash, and Ayaan Ali Bangash), along with "The Moon Cave" (featuring Asha Puthli, Bobby Womack, Dave Jolicoeur, Jalen Ngonda, and Black Thought) and "The Sad God" (featuring Black Thought, Ajay Prasanna, and Anoushka Shankar). All three songs were produced by Gorillaz, James Ford, Samuel Egglenton, and Remi Kabaka Jr., while "The Moon Cave" featured additional production from Argentine producer, Bizarrap.[53]

The short film was made entirely with hand-drawn animation, using techniques previously shown off in films such as One Hundred and One Dalmatians (1961) and The Jungle Book (1967), which Hewlett used as inspiration.[36] It was made available on YouTube, on the same day as the album's release, and a day after the film's premiere at a number of locations around the world.[54]

The film received an exclusive premiere at several Alamo Drafthouse Cinemas locations across the U.S., alongside a short documentary film. The release also saw the cinema host viewings of each virtual band member's favourite film over the course of a month: Sweet Charity (1969; Russel), Britannia Hospital (1982; Noodle), Bad Santa (2003; Murdoc) and Perfect Days (2023; 2-D).[55]

The film took 18 months to create, in collaboration with London production studio THE LINE, who the band had previously worked with on the music video for "Humility", as well as all of the music videos released during the band's Song Machine project.[56][57] "The Moon Cave" segment of the film was directed by animator Johnatan Djob Nkondo.[58]

In an interview with Cartoon Brew, Taylor and McCourt revealed that Hewlett worked on storyboards and animatics, with the team at The Line doing "a due diligence pass" before the video moved into full animation. "The whole film was very much an exercise in paying homage to something — researching all the references for how we could recreate that specific feeling. One thing we liked about the era was when they started Xeroxing or photocopying onto cel, which gave the quality of the cel a different look," said McCourt. To replicate the grain of celluloid film, the team used scans of actual film overlaid onto the shots. "Within the film there are lots of optical effects where we filmed live-action components. We then emulated the double exposures they would have done back in the day on film. As far as the grain, dirt, and noise, it's scanned film — blank film overlaid to give the final image that real film texture," said Taylor. The team also introduced gate weave — which gives the video the same characteristic wobble of film as it runs through a projector — to reinforce the film texture effect. For the glowing gold mountain logo that appears later in the film, the production team cut the logo out of a black acrylic sheet and rigged a rostrum camera setup, and then pumped smoke beneath the sheet. The logo's reveal was achieved by pouring black sand into the crack in the sheet to cover the logo, then reversing the footage.[59]
