# Short Film

On 26 February 2026, the band premiered an 8-minute animated film directed by Hewlett, Johnatan Djob Nkondo, Max Taylor and Tim McCourt, entitled The Mountain, the Moon Cave and the Sad God.[52]

The animation was created using traditional hand-drawn techniques by a team of artists, with additional practical effects incorporated into the film. During development, the creators closely studied the work of animators from 20th century films in order to replicate the compositional and aesthetic approaches of that era. Shot composition was designed to reflect the methods used in animated features of the 1960s, where artists often painted large "master" background artworks and then framed individual shots by cropping into those paintings. All backgrounds in the film were hand-painted. For many scenes, however, the production adopted a hybrid technique that combined traditional watercolor paintings with digital finishing and final paint adjustments.[60] The production team also used smoke as a practical stand-in effect for waterfalls throughout the film.[61] The film also features animated appearances from featured guests, Jalen Ngonda, Black Thought, and the late David Jolicoeur, who are all featured on "The Moon Cave".[62][63]

The film opens with a live action book being turned, which transitions into a shot of a jungle. A young child, later revealed to be Noodle is seen exploring an unidentified jungle before she encounters the serpent, Vritra. She slides off the serpent's back into the jungle's water, and as she swims out, she has grown into an adult. She notices a flautist playing the flute in the water nearby and steals his clothes. She then encounters her fellow bandmates: 2-D, Murdoc and Russel. Together, the band embark on a journey to a nearby mountain together.

Eventually, the group reach "the moon cave" where animals sing and the paintings on the wall come to life, including those of rappers Black Thought and Trugoy the Dove. They eventually reach the end of the cave, where they are met by Tarakeshwara, who takes them to the middle of a lake. Noodle then plunges into the depths of the lake. 2-D and Russel soon follow. Back on the boat, Murdoc is hesitant until the boatman grins at him, after which he nervously gets up, trips and falls into the water. The group slowly descend to the depths of the lake, as the scene fades to a view of Earth from space at sunrise, and then to the logo of the album.
