# The Shadowy Light

Featuring:
Asha Bhosle, Gruff Rhys, Ajay Prasanna, Amaan Ali Bangash & Ayaan Ali Bangash.

“The Shadowy Light” is the 12th track from Gorillaz' 8th studio album The Mountain. It features Indian playback singer and actress Asha Bhosle, and Welsh musician Gruff Rhys, who previously worked with Gorillaz on Superfast Jellyfish from Plastic Beach.

The song "The Shadowy Light" features guest contributions from Gruff Rhys, Ajay Prasanna, Amaan Ali Bangash, Ayaan Ali Bangash and Asha Bhosle. Bhosle, who sings the Hindi hook "Majhi Re Majhi" on the song (which she had also recorded earlier in her career), had her words written by lyricist and dialogue writer Kausar Munir. Speaking of the song, Bhosle said: "I was hesitant to work on this album of Gorillaz, but when I heard the music track and the lyrics, it triggered something deep inside me. This was not one of those everyday kinds of songs. The lyrics held deep meaning, and I felt moved enough to accept this assignment."[37] She further elaborated on the song's lyrics in a joint interview with Vogue India: "In one part of 'The Shadowy Light', I sing, 'Chal mere raahi, gehra hain paani, mujhe jaana hain uss paar.' I'm telling the boatman to ferry me across the river, which is my life's journey: my birth, my relationships, my dedication to music, my achievements, my duties as a mother, daughter, sister, wife and Indian. The boatman is a metaphor for my music, which has guided me across this river of life. When I get to the other side, my journey will be complete and I will attain moksha. If you listen carefully, you will be able to discern thousands of sounds floating around us. I shall become one of them. This freedom to become one with nature is what awaits me on the other side of the river."[15] Bhosle's contributions were recorded at her apartment in Mumbai, with Albarn playing the harmonium, while the album's producer, James Ford recorded Bhosle's contributions with a boom mic.[47][48] "The Shadowy Light", Bhosle, and her 1971 song "Dum Maro Dum", are also referenced by rapper Black Thought on the song "The Empty Dream Machine".[37] The band had previously attempted to work with Bhosle during the production of Plastic Beach, although the collaboration never came to fruition.